Imagine we have the following devise users `Customer::Private` and `Customer::Public`.
假设有了下面的devise 用户`Customer::Private` 和 `Customer::Public`。

`# models/customer/private.rb`
`# models/customer/public.rb`

## h2. Setting up the controllers  设置控制器

In order to scope the actions of each type of user, we first create the following controllers:
为了包含每种类型的用户的动作，首先创建下面的控制器：

```ruby
# app/controllers/customer/private/registrations_controller.rb
class Customer
  class Private
    class RegistrationsController < Devise::RegistrationsController
    end
  end
end
```

## h2. Setting up the views  设置视图

You will then have to create views for these, for example:
然后为它们创建视图，比如：

`# views/customer/private/registrations/new.html.haml`
`# views/customer/public/registrations/new.html.haml`

You will likely want to have a `_form.html.haml` partial for each. 
为每个动作创建`_form.html.haml`局部模板。

## h2. Configuring the devise registration routes  配置devise注册路由

Then in the routes file
在路由文件

```ruby
  devise_for :private_customers, :class_name => 'Customer::Private', :controllers => {:registrations => "customer/private/registrations", :sessions => 'main' } do
    get   "private_customer/sign_up" => "customer/private/registrations#new", :as => :private_customer_signup
    get   "private_customer/sign_in" => "main#index", :as => :private_customer_signin
  end
```

Similarly for public customer. 
类似于公共消费者。
Then you are ready to hit it from the view, as `link_to 'register', private_customer_signup_path` in the view. 
就可以从视图访问它了，例如视图中的`link_to 'register', private_customer_signup_path`
Enjoy!

# vim: set filetype=markdown : #
